I"÷<p>I think the events of January 6th ‚Äì the crowd‚Äôs slippery choreography and the discursive crisis of naming them and their actions ‚Äî were a really pointed example of what‚Äôs at stake. Watching multiple news channels that afternoon, a common refrain amongst commentators was ‚ÄúWhy is no one stopping them?‚Äù There was an expectation of arrest. But this expectation not only reflected their anticipation of greater law enforcement presence and the full force of the carceral system we live in, but of a literal arrest, in the sense of putting a stop to that crowd‚Äôs movement that we would expect such a presence to produce. In our embodied and visual memories from watching other protests‚Äô documentation, we recall these moments where mid-motion, their choreography is arrested by law enforcement. Individuals are immobilized, detained, pushed back. However, on January 6th, unarrested in their forward motion, this crowd had the space-time to keep moving and keep mutating, shifting in form. With the agency to be mutable, they enacted multiple crowd choreographies, each signifying a different crowd type or identity.</p>

<p>This is a big part of the reason there was a crisis around naming them and what they were doing. I say ‚Äúpart‚Äù, because, of course, the naming and typologizing of crowds is not merely a choreographic task. It is raced, gendered, classed, and informed by so many other discourses. They kept mutating as a crowd, slipping between looking like rioters, tourists, carnival revelers, a lynch mob, congregants, and several other corps identities. The disparate choreographies they took up made it impossible for the crowd to be legible as a single type. On twitter, I watched dozens of videos circulating on the 6th and in the days that followed. By watching and privileging any one of these videos‚Äô perspectives over another, you would name a different crowd type.</p>

<p>[insert capitol video gifs side-by-side]</p>

<p>In our conversation a few weeks ago, a day or two after January 6th, I remarked that I saw the day as a violent carnival rather than a coup, as it was still being called by major news outlets at the time. You brought in Bakhtin to our conversation and his idea of the carnival and carnivalesque.</p>
:ET